A web service is defines as a program that can transform any client application to a web-based application. The development of web services significantly depends on the scripting abilities of a programming language. An important aspect of Python language is that it can be used in scripting, implying that it is an effective development tool for web services. Web services developed by Python function using the standard messaging formats and they can be interfaced with other software development tools using the conventional Application Programming Interface (API).

Web programming using Python entails two major paradigms: server programming and client programming (Beazley 90). Server programming entails the development of web services that run on the web server, while client programming entails the development of web services that that run on the client side (Hetland 90). There are diverse approaches to server programming, examples include the WebFrameworks used for development of server side services using Python; CgiScripts used to write scripting applications in Python; Webservers, which are server solutions developed using Python.

Web services developed in Python are primarily used to offer access and functionality of the APIs via the web. On the client side, Python language can be used in a number of ways including Web Browser Programming, Web Client Programming and Web services. There are various libraries in Python for the development of web services; examples include the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) and the Web Services Description Language (WSDL).

Python language has extensive in-built tools that can provide support to Internet protocols, coupled with its code readability characteristic, Python is therefore one of the most appropriate programming languages that can be used in the development of dynamic web content using the concept of dynamic programming. Some of the in-built facilities included in Python that can facilitate dynamic programming and development of web services include (Beazley 123):

    Python comes with HTTP 1.1 server implementations, which has both file servers and CGI servers. An important feature of this characteristic is that their customization is easy and they incorporate the concept of automation of web tasks. HTTP 1.1 has tools for the implementation of HTTP requests. In addition, HTTP 1.1 implements secure web services.
    Another important feature of Python is that is has features used for parsing and constructing of Uniform Resource Locators (URLs). This is used to facilitate the handling of URLs by the web service in a more efficient manner.
    Python also has an included HTML and SGML modules used for parsing HTML tags during the development of web services. SGNL is a part of the parent language of Python language.
    Python can also support XML since it has in-built XML parsing features and SAX libraries embedded in the standard library.
    Python can also handle CGI requests, facilitating the process of developing codes for handling CGI.
    Low-level sockets serve to enhance network programming, which is an important strategy in the development web based applications.
